Israeli Heritage minister amichai
eliyahu is the first senior Israeli
official to react to the assassination
of Ismael hania in a post on the social
media platform X he says this is the
right way to clean the world of this
filth no more imaginary peace agreements
no more Mercy for these mortals and he
goes on to say the iron ham that will
strike them is the one that will bring
peace and a little comfort and
strengthen our ability to live in peace
and eliahu ends with hania's death makes
the world a little better AA Eldar is a
political analyst and author and he
comes to us from Tel Aviv sir if I can
get your reaction and just set the mood
for us in terms of our people on edge in
Israel this
morning yeah there there is a kind of a
mixed feeling on one hand people are if
not happy they are very proud of this uh
like you have a deal two for one strike
in one day uh this is unprecedented it
shows that it's not what uh Israel was
in October 7s Israel is still spr Israel
can attack in 24 hours can strike to uh
Middle East uh uh
cities and uh uh that uh every terrorist
has
to make sure that uh he is surrounded
with bodyguards and can uh only hide in
a bunker like Hassan Nala and uh they're
unable to move freely wherever they want
so I think on one hand the Israelis are
very proud of uh the Israeli High tech
technology they are brave Soldiers on
the other hand um people who live in Tel
Aviv not far from the IDF
headquarters um went to bed last night
um with the uh door of the shelter open
making sure that uh they can run uh for
shelter in their homes or uh underground
so uh we know that this is not the end
of the story it's not just a matter when
and where theah and Iran or both are
going to hit so I mean do you feel that
we are you know it's a bit hacky to say
this but are we at an inflection point
do you
feel I feel that it's a it's a vicious
circle and uh we have here uh three uh
partners who are not looking at uh
solving the conflict it's it's part of
uh the philosophy of managing the
conflict and zero some game um and there
is no uh responsible adult in Washington
or elsewhere people are watching now the
Olympic Games uh that are really willing
uh to put more leverage and uh to take
the risk of confronting Israel and Iran
maybe and forcing us to go back to the
negotiating table because you know the
graveyards in the Middle East are full
of uh senior leaders of Hamas
hisbah Iranian that couldn't be replaced
and they have been replaced Israel
assassinated abas musi and what we got
is uh hassanah who I think was able even
to
empower and uh uh it puts us far away
from any kind of a diplomatic settlement
so uh as long as the United States is
busy with the elections and domestic
issues and are not willing to uh use all
their leverage to force it on n
to start with ceasefire in Gaza and a
deal that will bring the captives back
home and this was a key also to a
ceasefire in the north as long as this
is not happening um Israel Lebanon and
Iran will have to bury more people AKA
Eldar political analyst and author
talking to us from Tel Aviv thank
you thank you
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al jaaz